This document discusses NetIQ (formerly Novell) eDirectory and
Universal Passwords. It gives installation tips and configuration
assistance for a quick eDirectory and Radiator integration.

eDirectory is an LDAP accessible user directory. It can be used to
hold information about users, passwords, computers and other objects
in your network. It is most often used to control access to networks of
Windows computers.

eDirectory runs on Windows, Linux and other platforms. It provides an
LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) server interface which
Radiator can use to search for and find users in order to control
dialup, wired and wireless network access.

Most LDAP servers prevent direct access to users passwords via LDAP,
so authenticating with an LDAP server in the past has meant storing a
separate per-user password field that can be fetched by LDAP, or else
getting the LDAP server to authenticate the password using
ServerChecksPassword.

eDirectory's Universal Passsword is a mechanism where each user has
just one password to control access to all the systems that are
regulated by eDirectory.

Radiator can be configured to fetch the Universal Password in
plaintext from eDirectory, and can therefore be used to authenticate
a wide range of authentication protocols such as PAP, CHAP, MSCHAP,
MSCHAPV2, PEAP-MSCHAP, EAP-MSCHAP, EAP-MD5 etc. This is an improvement
over Windows Active Directory, where it is impossible to recover the
user's plaintext password from AD via LDAP, and thereore can only be
used with PAP and TTLS-PAP using LDAP.

Thie means that Radiator can be used to authenticate almost all dialup,
wired and wireless network access with the same password that users
use for local machine login, providing a better 'single signon'
environment than used to be the case.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Configuring Radiator to connect to eDirectory from Unix

Radiator running on Unix can be configured to connect using AuthBy
LDAP2 to eDirectory running on any platform, on the same host, locally
or remotely. It can be configured with the GetNovellUP to fetch each users
Universal Password and there to authenticate most type of Raditor
authentication request.

Prerequisites are:
Radiator 3.11 plus patches or later
Net::LDAP Perl module
IO::Socket::SSL Perl module
Net::SSLeay Perl module
OpenSSL 0.9.7 or later

See goodies/edirectory.cfg and goodies/eap_edir_up.cfg for example
configurations for connecting Radiator to eDirectory. We strongly
suggest you start with one of these samples when developing your
Radiator configuration. There is extensive documentation about each
option in these example config files. Start with these and change them
to suit your requirements, as they will proabably work with your system
with very few changes.

By default eDirectory only permits TLS LDAP connections, so you will
need to configure Radiator to use TLS before it can connect to
eDirectory, whether or not you wish to use Universal Passwords.

Therefore you _must_ export the export the eDirectory LDAP server root
certificate and convert it to PEM format as described below. You must
then edit your Radiator configuration and set SSLCAFile to the full
path name to your root certificate file in PEM format.

You will also need to edit your config file to suit the way you
installed and configured eDirectory: set the AuthDN and
AuthPassword to the DN and password for your eDirectory
administrator. You will also have to set BaseDN to the top of the LDAP
directory tree that contains all your users.

(If you do not wish to give the eDirectory administrator password out
for use in the Radiator configuration, you can instead create a new
user that Radiator will use to connect to eDirectory. Using iManager,
create a new user, with a CN of, say 'radiusadmin'. Using
Rights->Rights To Other Objects specify that radiusadmin is a Trustee
for the container holding the users to be authenticated (the container
could be the top level O=YOURORGNAME or any other group containing
your users). Make sure the assigned rights of the radiusadmin trustee
include both 'Read' and 'Write'.)

You should now be able to run Radiator to connect to eDirectory:
  radius -config goodies/edirectory.cfg -trace 4
and use radpwtst to test authentication
  radpwtst -noacct -user username -password userspassword
where username and userspassword are the user and password you
created above.

If you have problems, send your configuration file and the trace level
4 output from Radiator to paid email support or the public Radiator
mailing list.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Installing eDirectory

These instructions are for eDirectory 8.8.8 Patch 10 with iManager
2.7.7 Patch 10, current at 2017-04-10. The installation was done on
64bit CentOS 7.3.

In these instructions, OPEN is the tree and OSC is the context. The Admin
username is 'admin' and their password is 'admin'. Modify these to suit your
organisation.

0. Make sure the proposed eDirectory server host you have internet access,
   static IP address and internal and external DNS host name assigned correctly
   (else server certificate will have wrong name and must disable cert verify
   with SSLVerify none).

   The hostname of the server must be resolvable. You may be able to
   do this with /etc/hosts

1. CentOS 7.3 requires 32 bit compatibility libraries. The installer
   also hints installing net-snmp
yum install glibc.i686 libstdc++.i686 net-snmp

2. The NDS distribution might be in a tarball or a disk. Unpack the tarball or
   mount the disk. cd to the distribution

3. Install eDirectory 8.8.8 Patch 10:
sh nds-install
ndsconfig new -t OPEN -n o=OSC -a cn=admin.o=OSC
> enter password for admin: admin

4. Install iManager 2.7:
tar zxvf iMan_27710_linux.tgz
cd iManager/installs/linux
sh iManagerInstallLinux.bin
(ensure you enter the same admin.OSC from above for 'User context' and
OPEN for 'Tree')

When asked about installing plugins, use something like this for 8.8.8
Patch 10: 6,12,14,18,22 (eDirectory plugins, certificate server,
password management, nmas plugins, radius).
  6 : eDirectory88 Plugins - 2.7.20161116 - eDirectory88 Plugins
 12 : NetIQ Certificate Server Plug-ins for iManager - 8.889.20161117 - NetIQ Certificate Management in eDirectory
 14 : NetIQ iManager Password Management - 10.7.20170209 - NetIQ iManager 2.7 Password Management Plug-ins
 18 : NMAS Plug-ins for iManager - 8.889.20161117 - Provide management of NetIQ's Modular Authentication Services in eDirectory
 22 : Novell Radius Plugin - 2.7.20140204 - Novell Radius Plugin functionality

5. Browse to port 8443 on the eDirectory server: e.g., https://linux-no66.site:8443/nps/
log in with the details of the Admin user you entered above: admin.OSC, admin, OPEN
You should then be in iManager

6. Extract the self-signed server Root certificate (The certificate is
   required to connect to the TLS secured LDAP port):
In iManager:
Directory administration->Modify Object, browse to Security->OPEN CA, OK,
Certificates Tab, select Self Signed Certificate, Export. Disable 'Export
private key'. Export Format DER, Next>>, 'Save the exported certificate'. Get
cert.der

7. Convert the self-signed server Root certificate to PEM format (the format
Radiator requires)
openssl x509 -inform DER -outform PEM -in cert.der -text -out edirectory-root.pem

8. Configure iManager and eDirectory:
In iManager:
Passwords->Password Policies, Sample Password Policy, check that Universal Passwords are enabled.
 Click on universal Password tab, Configuration Options, and enable 'Allow admin to retrieve passwords', OK

In iManager:
Optional: Create an Organisation Unit for users and set the policy for
this new OU.
Passwords->Password Policies, Sample Password Policy
 click on Policy Assignments tab, browse to OSC or the new OU, select
 OK. Should see the your chosen OU in Assignments.
 Add a user, set the password

9. To configure Radiator for universal passwords and SSLCAFile
   edirectory-root.pem from above, see the sample
   goodies/edirectory.cfg in the Radiator distribution.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Additional configuration notes for more NMAS methods,
VASCO_NMAS_Method_3.4_iMan27.zip and
novell-radius-ldap-extensions-1.1.0-3.zip

There are some mildy helpful documents here:
http://www.novell.com/documentation/edir_radius/pdfdoc/radiusadmin/radiusadmin.pdf
http://www.novell.com/coolsolutions/assets/freeradius-edir.pdf

Note: you need to see eDirectory documentation for the details. See
Novell and Vasco configuration for the full information.

10. To enable the freeradius compatible RADIUS schema:
See eDirectory documentation

11. Install more NMAS methods for various types of authentications:
In iManager:
NMAS->NMAS Login Methods->New browse to one of the zip files in
nmas/NmasMethods/Novell/ in your eDirectory distribution (or in
novell-nmas-methods.i386.rpm) which also comes with the distribution.
rpm -Uvh novell-nmas-methods.i386.rpm
The zip files will be installed in /opt/novell/nmas/nmasmthd/

12. To install the Vasco NMAS method, download the method module
http://www.vasco.com/large_download/Downloads/VASCO_NMAS_Method_3_4_iMan27.zip
follow the instructions included

13. Follow the instructions in radiusadmin.pdf to install
novell-radius-ldap-extensions-1.1.0 RPM, modify and load
radauth_ldapxtn.ldif and to restart the LDAP server.

See radiusadmin.pdf for RPM download link. At the time of writing the
RPMs were available from here:
http://download.novell.com/protected/Summary.jsp?buildid=NqQA7-rn_ak~


----------------------------------------------------------------------
